---
title: v4.1.0
date: "2024-11-20"
authors: [marcia-matias]
tags: [release]
---

LAND IT version 4.1.0 is now available. Below is the list of changes and new features.

<!-- truncate -->

-    Insertion of tools for geometry editing:
     -   Union
     -   Trace
     -   Identity
     -   Clip
     -   Split
-    It is now possible to change the name of a version.
-    Addition of a temporary logo.
-    Queries to editing layers are working again.
-    Bug fixes for polygon rendering on the map.
-    Bug fixes in complementary operations.
-    Corrections in unit tests.
-    Optimizations in the scenario import method.
-    Performance improvements.

<details>
<summary>Show details</summary>

-    Details of the new geometry editing tools:
     -   Union: This tool allows combining different polygons into a single new polygon. The user can determine which polygon whose attributes will be preserved in the final result.
     -   Trace: Allows creating new polygons by following the contour of existing geometries, providing a more precise and efficient way to draw new shapes.
     -   Identity: Allows dividing existing polygons based on a drawn polygon, creating new polygons corresponding to the intersections.
     -   Clip: This tool allows extracting a part of a polygon that is contained within a polygon drawn by the user. The remaining part of the original polygon is deleted.
     -   Split: Allows separating polygons into distinct parts by drawing a line over them.
-    Performance improvements were possible thanks to two corrections:
     -   GDAL, used in operations between layers, now uses GPKG files instead of shapefiles;
     -   Operations between layers with polygons that have more than 700 points are not allowed, if this happens they are divided into smaller polygons.

</details>
