---
title: v5.0.0
date: "2025-09-16"
authors: [marcia-matias]
tags: [release]
---

LAND IT version 5.0.0 is now available. Below is the list of changes and new features.

<!-- truncate -->

-    Creation of a new menu in LAND IT intended for data corresponding to the entire municipality of Mação, such as the cadastre, slope, adhesion and contracts;
-    Several components were added to docks, such as the map and the attribute table, so that the user can move and resize these components as preferred;
-    Reconstruction of the layer addition/import mode: the layer structure is defined in a JSON file that will be imported into LAND IT
-    When adding an information layer it is possible to define relationships between the layer to be added and existing layers. Such as relating the ID of a property in the adhesion file with the cadastre layer.
-    Implementation of data validation mechanisms to be inserted in information layers, such as email, dates, nationality and phone number validations.
-    Addition of view layers - layers that allow viewing a set of layers that relate to each other, in practice they execute joins between selected layers and in the same row show attributes of the various layers.
-    Implementation of functionalities for adding, removing and editing rows in information layers.
-    Creation of a real-time notification system: users are now notified when new layers with AIGP or territory information are added or deleted.
-    Addition of a notification mechanism for when a scenario is shared with other users.
-    Implementation of real-time collaboration for polygon drawing, so that several users can work on the same scenario simultaneously. Creation of a color system for each session, allowing to identify each user and who is drawing.
-    Manual editing of POSA layers
     -   add and remove polygons
     -   edit attributes
     -   apply geometry editing tools
-    New login interface for a more intuitive experience.
-    Optimizations in the LAND IT interface for faster loading and rendering.
-    Correction of various bugs.
